# Create rose diagrams in Inkscape from survex .3d files

Calculate a passage orientation rose diagram from a survex `.3d` file on
the fly and render it into an Inkscape document as an SVG group object.

### Usage

The extension is operated as an import filter.  To run it do File
&rarr; Import ... , and choose the 'Rose diagram (*.3d)' option.  This
brings up a small dialog box with options to set the number of
sectors, choose whether to render the diagram in color (default) or
black and white, and to set a title.  If the title is left unset in
the dialog, a default title is extracted from the `.3d` file.

### Installation

Copy the files `rose_create.py` and `rose_create.inx` into your local
Inkscape extension folder: `$HOME/.config/inkscape/extensions/` on
unix, or `%APPDATA%\inkscape\extensions\` on Windows.

That's it...there are no dependencies since the extension natively
reads the binary `.3d` file format (v8 only, which generated by survex
versions from 1.2.7).

### Copying

This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation, either version 2 of the License, or
(at your option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with this program.  If not, see
<http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

### Copyright

The `.3d` file parser is based on a GPL v2 library to handle Survex 3D files (`*.3d`),
copyright &copy; 2008-2012 Thomas Holder, http://sf.net/users/speleo3/; 
see https://github.com/speleo3/inkscape-speleo.

Modifications and extensions to compute rose diagrams and export SVG
copyright &copy; (2017, 2018) Patrick B Warren.
